feat: new public example for native external references[FUS-261] (#9555)
contentful/apps: examples/native-external-references-mockshop/README.md

3. **Contentful CMA endpoint URL**. This refers to the URL used to interact with Contentful's Management APIs.
4. **App Parameters**. These configurable values set defaults or define custom validation rules. We won’t define any in this example since the API URL remains the same.

* Opt for **N** to advance with the process of defining the parameters

5. The next steps will lead you through the process of providing a Contentful access token to the application and specifying the organization to which the application should be assigned.

> **NOTE:** 
> Make sure the organization ID you select here is of the organization that has access to the Native external references feature.

You now have a basic application that can be enriched with additional information that will enable the example project you downloaded to function properly.

## Building and uploading the app

After creating the app definition, we can take care of uploading the code by running these commands:

```bash
npm run build
npm run upload
```

For more information on environment variables, see [npm run upload-ci](#npm-run-upload-ci)

> The interactive CLI will prompt you to provide additional details, such as a CMA endpoint URL. Select **Yes** when prompted if you’d like to activate the bundle after upload.

Reviewer: This came up in the bug bash session. Do you think it would be a good idea to mention that EU data residency users should use `https://api.eu.contentful.com` instead of the default?

https://api.eu.contentful.com/

>  
> If you would like to list all the previously created entities, you can utilize a similar script that prints out more verbose details: `npm run show-resource-entities` .

## Installing the app

* After you successfully upload your app, install it to an existing space by running the command: `npm run install-app`
* Select the space and environment in which you would prefer to install the example app from the dialog that appears. You will have to grant access to the space the app will be installed in.
* After granting access, the configuration screen, which is rendered by the <ConfigScreen /> component, will be displayed. Input your MockShop API URL into the form and proceed to save the changes.

Your example app is now configured and installed.

The form that will save the MockShop API URL when we install the app has been defined in `src/locations/ConfigScreen.tsx`. More information on how configuration screens are set up can be found in [this App Configuration tutorial](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/app-configuration/).

> # Code structure

Reviewer 2: I'm missing an entire section going over how the `ResourceProvider` and `ResourceEntities` are set up with the helpers available in this project.

Author: Alright, added a small section to make sure we are covering everything.

With Native external references we introduce the following new entity types that allow us to model the data from third-party systems in Contentful:

* `Resource Provider` - a third-party system that provides resources. Each provider can have multiple resource types. In our example: a `MockShop` provider.
* `Resource Type` - a specific type of resource (not the resource itself) that is provided by a resource provider. In our example: `Product`.
# Instructions to create and run the app

## Copying the example

To get started with your application, you need to make a local copy of the example code by running the following command in your terminal. 

> **NOTE:** 
> Make sure you replace `<name-of-your-app>` with the name of your choice.

```bash
npx create-contentful-app@latest <name-of-your-app> --example native-external-references-mockshop
```

Once the process finishes, navigate to the directory that was created by running this command:

```bash
cd <name-of-your-app>
```

To complete the process, it is necessary to install all dependencies of the project by executing the following command:

```bash
npm i

> ```

Reviewer 2: This can be removed. This is already done by `create-contentful-app`

```bash
npm run create-app-definition
```

You will need to answer the following questions in the terminal when prompted. Feel free to proceed with the default options provided.

1. **Name of your application**. This is how your app will be named and it will be displayed in a few places throughout the UI. The default is the name of the folder you created.
2. **Select where your app can be rendered**. This shows potential [app locations](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/locations/) where an app can be rendered within the Contentful Web app. Select **App configuration screen** , as we will utilize the configuration screen to provide the external API URL for the app.
3. **Contentful CMA endpoint URL**. This refers to the URL used to interact with Contentful's Management APIs.
4. **App Parameters**. These are configurable values that can be used to set default values or define custom validation rules. We need to define these for the API URL in this case:

* Opt for **Y** to advance with the process of defining the parameters
* Choose **Installation**
* Input `MockShop API Endpoint` as **Parameter name** and `apiEndpoint` as **ID**

> * Select **Symbol** as type and mark the parameter as required

Reviewer 2: I feel like we could better let the user opt for `n` and skip this as it might add more ways for the user to not complete the goal of the tutorial. App parameters are described elsewhere

Author: I can remove this but then we don't need this function `getMockShopUrl` anymore since this was getting the  `apiEndpoint` from  `context.appInstallationParameters`

Reviewer 2: Yea, we're probably heading in the direction of removing the configuration screen. But I was referring to the fact that you can have a configuration screen without setting up the Parameters. It would still work that way.

5. The next steps will lead you through the process of providing a Contentful access token to the application and specifying the organization to which the application should be assigned.

> **NOTE:** 
> Make sure the organization ID you select here is of the organization that has access to the Native external references feature.

You now have a basic application that can be enriched with additional information that will enable the example project you downloaded to function properly.

## Building and uploading the app

After creating the app definition, we can take care of uploading the code by running these commands:

```bash

> npm run build && npx contentful-app-scripts upload --ci --bundle-dir ./build --organization-id <organisation-id> --definition-id <app-definition-id> --token <cma-token>`

Reviewer 2: I'd split the commands instead of using `&&`. I would also recommend using the interactive cli for uploading.
```suggestion
npm run build
npm run upload
```

Author: I am fine with anything but this option seem really great all in one command but it is my opinion.

1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Description](#description)
3. [Instructions to create and run the app](#instructions-to-create-and-run-the-app)
    - [Copying the example](#copying-the-example)
    - [Creating a custom app definition](#creating-a-custom-app-definition)
    - [Building and uploading the app](#building-and-uploading-the-app)
    - [Creating resource entities](#creating-resource-entities)
    - [Installing the app](#installing-the-app)
4. [Code structure](#code-structure)
    - [Functions](#functions)
    - [Entities overview](#entities-overview)
    - [Property mapping](#property-mapping)
    - [App manifest](#app-manifest)
5. [Available Scripts](#available-scripts)
# Prerequisites
* We're assuming you are familiar with the following concepts:
  + [App Framework](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/), including [App Definition](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/app-definition/) and [App Installation](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/app-installation/)
  + [Functions](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/functions/)

> * The space where you will install the application has the [Orchestration](https://www.contentful.com/help/orchestration/) feature enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The space where you will install the application has the [Orchestration](https://www.contentful.com/help/orchestration/) feature set enabled.
```

* Your system has installed:
  + The latest LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

> **NOTE:** 
> Please make sure you consistently choose the same **Organization ID** that has the Native external references functionality during any setup steps that require you to select the organization.

# Description

> Contentful supports external content integration through the [App Framework](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/). The [App Marketplace](https://www.contentful.com/marketplace/) currently offers offers ready-made solutions for systems like [Shopify](https://www.contentful.com/help/external-references-with-shopify/) or [commercetools](https://www.contentful.com/help/external-references-with-commercetools/). However, connecting to other systems requires developing custom frontend apps with bespoke implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contentful supports external content integration through the [App Framework](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/). The [App Marketplace](https://www.contentful.com/marketplace/) currently offers ready-made solutions for systems like [Shopify](https://www.contentful.com/help/external-references-with-shopify/) or [commercetools](https://www.contentful.com/help/external-references-with-commercetools/). However, connecting to other systems requires developing custom frontend apps with bespoke implementation.
```

> To overcome these challenges, we offer a more streamlined and cohesive approach to linking third-party systems through existing content model Reference Fields. This upgraded version of fields is referred to as **Native external references** .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To overcome these challenges, we offer a more streamlined and cohesive approach to linking third-party systems through existing content model Reference Fields. This upgraded version of fields is referred to as **Native External References** .
```

> To overcome these challenges, we offer a more streamlined and cohesive approach to linking third-party systems through existing content model Reference Fields. This upgraded version of fields is referred to as **Native external references** .

Reviewer: We either need to capitalize all of "Native External References" or none of it, depending on how we perceive the feature and now we talk about it elsewhere.

Reviewer: If it's the official, "formal" title of the feature, then it probably should all be capitalized.

Author: I can see this is how "Custom external references" is mentioned here and I was using the same format
https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/concepts/external-references/

Reviewer: Yeah, and that looks wrong, too 😄

Author: I would love to keep it constant here which matches with existing docs for the time being.

> Native external references streamline how third-party systems link to existing Reference Fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Native external references make it possible to connect any third-party systems to existing Reference fields.
```

> For the purpose of this example, we will be connecting to the [MockShop](https://mock.shop/) external system and query the data using Contentful Graph API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purpose of this example, we will be connecting to the [MockShop](https://mock.shop/) external API and resolving its data through Contentful's GraphQL Content API.
```

Author: I really don't think specific `GraphQL Content API` wording is required, `Contentful GraphQL API` is enough, taking example from existing [docs](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/references/graphql/#/reference/custom-external-references:~:text=Contentful%20GraphQL%20API.).

Reviewer: The funny thing about that highlight is that it's the only example of that name for the api, and it should probably be changed The name I suggested is literally the name of the page you linked, but I don't think anyone will be confused either way.

* `Resource Type` - a specific type of resource (not the resource itself) that is provided by a resource provider. In our example: `Product`.
# Instructions to create and run the app

## Copying the example

To get started with your application, you need to make a local copy of the example code by running the following command in your terminal. 

> **NOTE:** 
> Make sure you replace `<name-of-your-app>` with the name of your choice.

```bash
npx create-contentful-app@latest <name-of-your-app> --example native-external-references-mockshop
```

Once the process finishes, navigate to the directory that was created by running this command:

```bash
cd <name-of-your-app>
```

To complete the process, it is necessary to install all dependencies of the project by executing the following command:

```bash
npm i
```

## Creating a custom app definition

To see your app within Contentful, you must first set it up. To do that, we will create an app definition, which is an entity that represents an app in Contentful and stores general information about it.

To create the app definition, run this command:

```bash
npm run create-app-definition
```

> You will need to answer the following questions on the terminal. Feel free to proceed with the default options provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to answer the following questions in the terminal when prompted. Feel free to proceed with the default options provided.
```

> 1. **Name of your application** . This is how your app will be named and it will be displayed in a few places throughout the UI. The default is the name of the folder you created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Name of your application** . This is how your app will be named and it will be displayed in a few places throughout the UI of the Contentful web application. The default is the name of the folder you created.
```

> 2. **Select where your app can be rendered**. This shows potential [app locations](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/locations/) where an app can be rendered within the Contentful Web app. Select **App configuration screen** , as we will utilize the configuration screen to provide the External API URL for the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Select where your app can be rendered**. This shows potential [app locations](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/locations/) where an app can be rendered within the Contentful Web app. Select **App configuration screen** , as we will utilize the configuration screen to provide the external API URL for the app.
```

> 3. **Contentful CMA endpoint URL** . This refers to the URL used to interact with Contentful's Management APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Contentful CMA endpoint URL**. This refers to the URL used to interact with Contentful's Management APIs.
```

Author: This seems to be default formatting of my editor which adds this space, may be I need to turn off formatting on save

> 4. **App Parameters** . These are configurable values that can be used to set default values or define custom validation rules. As we need to define these for the API URL in this case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **App Parameters**. These are configurable values that can be used to set default values or define custom validation rules. You'll need to define these for the API URL:
```

* Opt for **Y** to advance with the process of defining the parameters.

> * Choose **Installation** .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Choose **Installation**
```

> * Input `MockShop API Endpoint` as **Parameter name** and `apiEndpoint` as **ID** .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Input `MockShop API Endpoint` as **Parameter name** and `apiEndpoint` as **ID**
```

> * Select **Symbol** as type and mark the parameter as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **Symbol** as type and mark the parameter as required
```

5. The next steps will lead you through the process of providing a Contentful access token to the application and specifying the organization to which the application should be assigned.

> **NOTE:** 

> > Make sure the organization ID you select here is the Organization that has access to the Native external references feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Make sure the organization ID you select here is the organization that has access to the Native external references feature.
```

>  

> > This command creates the app definition in your first space within the master environment.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this means exactly. App definitions are organization-scoped, so they shouldn't be related to spaces and environments except via an app installation.

Author: May be this wording is better 
`This command creates the app definition in your first space within the master environment in your organisation.`

You now have a basic application that can be enriched with additional information that will enable the example project you downloaded to function properly.

## Building and uploading the app

After creating the app definition, we can take care of uploading the code by running these commands:

```bash
npm run build && npx contentful-app-scripts upload --ci --bundle-dir ./build --organization-id <organisation-id> --definition-id <app-definition-id> --token <cma-token>`
```

For more information on environment variables, see [npm run upload-ci](#npm-run-upload-ci)

> The interactive CLI will prompt you to provide additional details, such as a CMA endpoint URL. Select **Yes** when prompted if you’d like to activate the bundle after upload.

Reviewer: What does "activate the bundle" mean. I'm not sure anyone reading this will have enough information to know whether they should activated it or not. For the sake of the simplifying the steps, I would suggest we recommend activating it and briefly explain why.

```bash
npm run create-resource-entities
```

This will tell Contentful that we want to connect to `MockShop` via the function we uploaded in [Building and uploading the app](#building-and-uploading-the-app) step and that the same function can provide `MockShop:Product` _Resource Types_.

> **NOTE:** 
> Please configure the .env variables properly before running these scripts
>  
> `create-resource-entities` script generates new entities within the system, and prints out a minimal log when the operation has succeeded.
>  
> If you would like to list all the previously created entities, you can utilize a similar script that prints out more verbose details: `npm run show-resource-entities` .

## Installing the app

* After you successfully upload your app, install it to an existing space by running the command: `npm run install-app`
* Select the space and environment in which you would prefer to install the example app from the dialog that appears. You will have to grant access to the space the app will be installed in.

> * After granting access, the configuration screen, which is rendered by the <ConfigScreen /> component, will be displayed. Input your MockShop API URL into the form and proceed to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After granting access, the configuration screen—which is rendered by the <ConfigScreen /> component—will be displayed. Input your MockShop API URL into the form and proceed to save the changes.
```

Your example app is now configured and installed.

> The form that will save the MockShop API URL when we install the app has been defined in `src/locations/ConfigScreen.tsx` . More information how configuration screens are set up can be found in [this App Configuration tutorial](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/app-configuration/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The form that will save the MockShop API URL when we install the app has been defined in `src/locations/ConfigScreen.tsx`. More information on how configuration screens are set up can be found in [this App Configuration tutorial](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/app-configuration/).
```

# Code structure

## Functions

> The example app is using [Functions](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/functions/) to provide a connection between Contentful and the Mock.shop API. In the `functions/mockShop.ts` file we are defining two events that are necessary for Native external references to function properly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example app is using [Functions](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/functions/) to provide a connection between Contentful and the MockShop API. In the `functions/mockShop.ts` file, we are defining two events that are necessary for Native external references to function properly:
```

* `resources.search` - retrieval of specific content based on search queries
* `resources.lookup` - retrieval of specific content based on URNs (IDs)

> * `graphql.resourcetype.mapping` - retrieves resource type mappings that determine which fields map to an external type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `graphql.resourcetype.mapping` - retrieval of resource type mappings, which determine what fields map to an external type
```

> * `graphql.query` -  handles GraphQL queries for the external third-party API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `graphql.query` -  handles GraphQL queries for the external third-party API
```

## Entities overview

> Below is a representation of how a _Resource Provider_ is structured, using the MockShop app as an illustrative example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a representation of how a _Resource Provider_ is structured, using the MockShop app as an illustrative example:
```

               "sys":{
                  "type":"Link",
                  "linkType":"ResourceProvider",
                  "id":"MockShop"
               }
            },
            "appDefinition":{
               "sys":{
                  "type":"Link",
                  "linkType":"AppDefinition",
                  "id":"<app-definitin-id>"
               }
            },
            "organization":{
               "sys":{
                  "type":"Link",
                  "linkType":"Organization",
                  "id":"<organisation-id>"
               }
            },
            "type":"ResourceType"
         },
         "name":"Product",
         "defaultFieldMapping":{
            "title":"{ /title }",
            "image":{
               "altText":"{ /featuredImage/altText }",
               "url":"{ /featuredImage/url }"
            },
            "subtitle":"Product ID: { /id }"
         }
      }
   ],
   "pages":{}
}
```

## Property mapping

Contentful uses `resource type mappings` to determine which field in an entry is mapped to an external type and to specify any arguments required for External GraphQL queries defined in `queryHandler` 

> Contentful web app displays entries using components that require specific data structures to fill their UI elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Contentful web application displays entries using components that require specific data structures to fill their UI elements.
```

The mapping between these components and external system data is established using [JSON pointers](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6901).

This mapping is defined in the `defaultFieldMapping` property of each `Resource Type` and must adhere to the structure used for mapping the values shown in the entry component:

> The definitions of `Product` **Resource Type** representations can be found in the ` src/tools/entities/product.json ` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definitions of `Product` **Resource Type** representations can be found in the ` src/tools/entities/product.json `.
```

## App manifest

> The app manifest is a JSON file that describes the app and its capabilities. It contains a `functions` property which is an array of functions the app can run. Currently, Contentful Apps can only be associated with one function, therefore you can only have one function in the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The app manifest is a JSON file that describes the app and its capabilities. It contains a `functions` property, which is an array of functions the app can run. Currently, Contentful Apps can only be associated with one function, therefore you can only have one function in the array.
```

The function properties are as follows:

* `id`: The _id_ of the Function.
* `name`: A readable name for the Function.
* `description`: A brief description of the Function.
* `path`: This is the path to the transpiled source file of the Function in your bundle. Exposing a `handler` function.
* `entryFile`: Path pointing to the source file of the Function. Exposing a `handler` function.
* `allowedNetworks`: A list of endpoints the Function should be allowed to connect to. This is a security feature to prevent unauthorized access to your network.
* `accepts`: An array of event types the Function can handle. In this case we have two event types: `resources.search`,  `resources.lookup` `graphql.resourcetype.mapping`,                             `graphql.query`.
# Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

#### `npm start` 

> Creates or updates your app definition in Contentful, and runs the app in development mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates or updates your app definition in Contentful and runs the app in development mode.
```

Open your app to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

#### `npm run build` 

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.
Your app is ready to be deployed!

#### `npm run upload` 

> Uploads the build folder to contentful and creates a bundle that is automatically activated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uploads the build folder to Contentful and creates a bundle that is automatically activated.
```

The command guides you through the deployment process and asks for all required arguments.
Read [here](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/create-contentful-app/#deploy-with-contentful) for more information about the deployment process.

#### `npm run upload-ci` 

> Similar to `npm run upload` it will upload your app to contentful and activate it. The only difference is  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to `npm run upload`, this command will upload your app to contentful and activate it. The only difference is  
```

> Similar to `npm run upload` it will upload your app to contentful and activate it. The only difference is  
> that with this command all required arguments are read from the environment variables, for example when you add
> the upload command to your CI pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to `npm run upload`, this command will upload your app to Contentful and activate it. The only difference is that with this command, all required arguments are read from the environment variables (e.g.,  when you add the upload command to your CI pipeline).
```
